Page 1 of 10
Marriott School of Business, Brigham Young University, Department of Finance
Principles of Finance (FIN 201), Winter 2026
Section 3 Blended On-demand remote and
optional in-person help labs

Instructor: Jim Brau, PhD, CFA, CFP® Email: jbrau@byu.edu
Office: 620 TNRB Home Page: http://jimbrau.com
Cell: 801.318.7919 Office Hours: By appointment
Class Objective: To love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our soul and with all our mind, and to love our
neighbor as ourselves.
Class Scripture: 2 Nephi 25:26: “And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ...”
Class Thought: “Those things which provide deep and lasting happiness and gratitude are the things which money cannot
buy: our families, the gospel, good friends, our health, our abilities, the love we receive from those around
us.” – President Thomas S. Monson, Oct 2010 General Conference.
Former BYU President: “Education is not an easy enterprise. It is profoundly unsettling.” Pres. Oaks, 1971 BYU address
Class Quote: “The world ain’t all sunshine and rainbows. It’s a very, very mean and nasty place, and I don’t care how
tough you are, it will beat you to your knees and keep you there permanently if you let it. You, me, or
nobody is gonna hit as hard as life. But it ain’t about how hard you hit, it’s about how hard you can get
hit and keep moving forward. How much you can take and keep moving forward. That’s how winning is
done.” –Rocky Balboa. Consider Elder Orson F. Whitney’s counsel about the purpose of trials: “No pain
that we suffer, no trial that we experience is wasted. It ministers to our education, to the development of
such qualities as patience, faith, fortitude and humility. All that we suffer and all that we endure, especially
when we endure it patiently, builds up our characters, purifies our hearts, expands our souls, and makes us
more tender and charitable, more worthy to be called the children of God … and it is through sorrow and
suffering, toil and tribulation, that we gain the education that we come here to acquire and which will make
us more like our Father and Mother in heaven” (in Spencer W. Kimball, Faith Precedes the
Miracle[1972], 98).
Education Philosophy: Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school" - often attributed to
Albert Einstein
1st Finance Lesson: Mere Christianity by C.S. Lewis, Chapter 8: “Good and evil both increase at compound interest. That is
why the little decisions you and I make every day are of such infinite importance. The smallest good act
today is the capture of a strategic point from which, a few months later, you may be able to go on to
victories you never dreamed of. An apparently trivial indulgence in lust or anger today is the loss of a ridge
or railway line or bridgehead from which the enemy may launch an attack otherwise impossible.”
True Wealth: “You may surround any man or woman with all the wealth and glory that the imagination of man can
grasp, and are they satisfied? No. There is still an aching void. On the other hand, show me a beggar upon
the streets, who has the Holy Ghost, whose mind is filled with that Spirit and power, and I will show you a
person who has peace of mind, who possesses true riches, and those enjoyments that no man can obtain
from any other source” (Journal of Discourses, Vo. 2, p. 199, Wilford Woodruff, February 25, 1855).
Class Mantra: I know not how soon the messenger will call for me, but I calculate to die in the harness. -Brigham Young
Corollary: Be a workhorse, not a show pony. -Bro Brau
Spiritual Thoughts: “Brother Maeser, who was a convert German schoolmaster and disciplined in the precision of his
homeland, asked President Young for his instructions. ‘I have only these,’ President Young said. ‘You
should not teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God. That is all. God
bless you. Good-bye’” - Pres. Wilkinson. As such, I will share a spiritual thought each class period. At no
time will I ever speak for the Church, the Brethren, the University, my college, my department, the US
Army, the Provo Police Department, the State of Utah, or any other entity. My spiritual thoughts, and even
my professional development moments, will always be only my own thoughts and opinions.
Page 2 of 10
An Invitation: If at any time you have questions about the gospel or your testimony or life, I invite you to contact me. This invitation
extends beyond the length of our class and beyond membership in the Church. I have found that some students at BYU question their
testimonies or their purpose in life for one reason or another. As a convert myself, someone who has been a member of four religions,
and someone who was baptized too late to serve a mission, I feel I have a somewhat unique perspective on faith. My office is a
confidential, non-threatening, and non-judgmental environment and the lazy chair is always welcome to anyone who would like to
chat about the most important things. If you’re considering leaving the Church when you graduate, I’d love to hear why. Discussions
are 100% confidential and have no bearing on your grade in my class or standing at BYU.
Teaching Assistants:
Lead TAs: Aaron Luekenga, Cooper Meldrum
TA Team: Abby McDougal, Avery Porter, Ben Garrett, Caden Fund, Cameron Chao, Carson Galovan, Clayton Guo,
Daniel Bayles, Ephraim Drennan, Hannah Siu, Kaitlyn Stout, Loralyn Palmer, Luke McCoy, Nate Hess,
Parker Ward, Shannon Siu, Tate Christiansen
*Our TAs do not work on Sunday. Please do not contact them or expect replies on Sunday. If you have an emergency on
Sunday you need to inform me of, email me directly.
VISION: We aspire to transform the world through Christlike leadership.
MISSION: We develop leaders of faith, intellect, and character.
VALUES:
Faith in Christ
We value deep and abiding faith in Jesus Christ. Our faith gives us the capacity to envision a better future, the confidence to make that
future happen, and the courage to act in the face of challenges.
Integrity in Action
We value integrity and hold ourselves to the highest moral and ethical standards. Acting with integrity builds trust, strengthens
character, and focuses our ambitions on things of eternal consequence.
Respect for All
We value respect for all individuals as children of God and recognize the inherent worth, divine potential, and agency of each person.
A climate of respect and belonging enhances our learning, facilitates collaboration, and encourages personal growth.
Excellence
We value excellence in learning, teaching, research, management, and leadership. An expectation of excellence magnifies our
influence and motivates us to continually improve.
GUIDING PRINCIPLE
Centered on Students
We evaluate our decisions and actions by the impact they will have on the academic experience, professional preparation, character
development, emotional well-being, and spiritual growth of our students.
Materials
1. Textbook: No hard-copy textbook is required for this course. However, students will be required to purchase online course
materials from MyEducator (ME) that include videos, assessment tools (in-text practice quizzes), readings, and other
activities.
To join the Principles of Finance (FIN 201) course, please follow these instructions:
Click on the following link: https://app.myeducator.com/s/3LeTLkVE401/.
• You will be brought to the Shopping Cart page where you will need to click on the "Checkout" button.
• After checking out, you will need to create a MyEducator account if you do not already have one. This account provides
you with technical support should you need any assistance using the book features during the course, and this adds your
email to the class email list. Please use the email address you want to receive correspondence pertaining to this course.
Please also make sure you enter your BYU Net ID (NOT your student ID number) when prompted. We need this data
to transfer your grades to our gradebook. If you do not correctly enter your Net ID, you will receive zero credit for the
quizzes.
• Finally, you will be taken to the payment page where you can purchase the courseware. Once you have filled out the
required fields of text, click the "Pay Now" button. Once this step is complete, you will be admitted to the course.
Everyone must purchase their own product to complete course quizzes.
Page 3 of 10
• If you are retaking a course and have already bought a book, you can add yourself to the new course simply by
clicking on the new sign-up link above. Go through the normal purchase process with the same email/login you used
last time and it should charge you zero dollars to enroll. You do not need to pay another fee or wait on support to access
the new material.
In order to receive credit for this class, students must score over a 90% on a syllabus quiz in MyEducator within the
first two weeks of class. You can take it as many times as you like.
If you have any questions or concerns with the sign-up process, don't hesitate to send an email
to support@myeducator.com. They are very responsive.
2. Calculator: You will need a calculator that can compute time value of money (should have PV, FV, I/Y, N, PMT capability)
and uneven cash flows (should have NPV and IRR capability). If you already have a TI-83, TI-83+, TI-84, TI-89, HP-48G,
TI-BA-II+, HP-10BII, or HP-12C, your calculator already has these functions, or you can download them from the web or
program them. If you do not have a calculator that can do these functions, you need to purchase one. The text we use has key
strokes (instructions) for the TI-83-84/+, TI-BA-II+, and the HP-10BII. If you need to buy a calculator, I recommend the TIBA II+ as this is the best one for the CFA exam in my opinion (and one of the cheapest options). I will use a TI-83+/84+ and
a TI-BA II+ in my class demonstrations. You may not use your iPhones, cell phones, laptops, TI-Nspires, or other similar
electronic devices on exams.
3. We will use LearningSuite as our learning platform. LearningSuite will be unpublished the last day of final exams. Please
have everything downloaded from the site you want to keep from the class (e.g., drill problems, syllabus, etc.) as it will not
be turned back on.
Learning Objectives
Students will learn to apply financial management models from the viewpoint of the business manager. Specifically, students will:
1. understand how financial statements are used by financial managers/analysts,
2. utilize DuPont and free cash flow measures,
3. construct a financial forecast for a firm,
4. employ time value of money/discounted cash flows to solve common financial problems,
5. value bonds and stocks,
6. measure risk and how it correlates with return,
7. compute after-tax cash flows for capital budgeting projects,
8. make corporate investment decisions using capital budgeting,
9. compute the cost of capital for a firm,ca
10. value a firm, and
11. learn personal finance key topics.
Learning Objective Assessment
The learning objectives will be assessed using topic quizzes and three examinations. All quizzes are open book and open note, but closed
internet/neighbor/friends/family. These quizzes will help prepare you for the course exams. Please work through the “Suggested
Problems” found in the e-book before taking the quizzes. The exams will all be administered online using Proctorio, an electronically
proctored system. These exams will be closed everything and completely multiple choice. Questions are specifically formulated to assess
whether you have mastered each learning objective or not.
Why I think this class is important
In this class, you will be exposed to some financial theory; however, the primary focus of the class is on applying technical skills:
financial models and their application to real life. I will do my best to teach you the skills that will help you be a successful businessperson
with the potential and ability to support your family financially. Additionally, I will expose you to personal finance applications that are
designed to directly apply to your lives, no matter what you do after this class. I realize most of you will not be finance majors and have
designed this class to add value especially for you!
I believe my class orientation significantly contributes to the mission of BYU – “to assist individuals in their quest for … eternal life.”
An American Bar Association report stated that 89% of divorces in America could be attributed to quarrels over finance. By becoming
more marketable as professionals and by understanding concepts to manage your personal finances, I feel this course can help you
mitigate this large cause of divorce from your marital relationships. Additionally, for those who are single, having practical financial
skills can eliminate a great deal of personal stress.
Page 4 of 10
Throughout this course, please contemplate how the material we cover correlates with the aims of BYU. These aims are that BYU will
provide an experience that is: 1) spiritually strengthening, 2) intellectually enlarging, 3) character building, and 4) inspiring lifelong
learning and service.
Teaching Assistant (TA) Lab: We have a very strong TA team this semester. If you desire TA help, there are two options:
1) In-Person Help Desk: TAs will be available to provide in-person help. A detailed schedule will be posted to LS.
2) Zoom Help Desk: A zoom help desk schedule will be published after the semester begins.
a. Link: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/3202916622
b. Meeting ID: 320 291 6622
c. Password: WORKHORSE
3) Email Help Desk: You can email byufin201@gmail.com for virtual help. Please allow at least 24 hours for a reply and please
do not email a TA’s personal address. If you have an urgent personal matter, email Dr. Brau directly at jbrau@byu.edu.
Finance Society Tutors: There will be a link on LS with a Google Doc of Finance Society members who have volunteered as tutors.
You may need to try two or three different volunteers until you find a good match. If you can tell in the first few minutes the person is
not adding value, you do not have to stay in the session with him or her. A phone call prior to the appointment typically helps you assess
if you will be a good fit prior to a meeting.
MUSA Mentoring Program: The Marriott School Undergraduate Student Association (MUSA) has a mentoring program for any
student who is interested. MUSA’s main focus is to help students "navigate the Marriott School," meaning that they help premanagement students learn about different majors and resources, such as e-recruiting, to help in their quest to find an internship. Students
can visit undergraduate advising on the fourth floor of the Tanner Building to connect with MUSA.
Study Groups: Study groups can help some students who learn best through group work. If you fit into this category, I encourage you
to get together with some of your classmates if you are struggling in any dimension with the course material.
Communication Policy: I am here to serve you. With 1,300+ students this semester, I need to rely on the class TAs to conduct most
of the one-on-one student interaction, through personal tutoring, TA Labs, and email help. Please send all email questions to our TAs,
unless they are personal in nature. If the TAs cannot help with a finance question, she or he will send it on to me and I will reply to
you directly. If a situation is too personal to involve the TAs, feel free to email me directly. As per FERPA rules, I am unable to
communicate any grade information via email.
Office Hour Policy: I enjoy interacting with students. Office hours are designed to facilitate one-on-one interaction with students. If
you visit the Finance Society volunteers for personal tutoring, visit the TA Lab, and work with the MUSA mentors and you feel you
need additional help, feel free to contact me directly. Prior to coming to office hours, please have your questions well thought out and
written down. I expect you to have put in an appropriate amount of study on your own time trying to understand the material prior to
coming to office hours. All office hours are pre-scheduled so I can be sure to give you my undivided attention. To arrange an
appointment, please email me. In the email, please include the questions or problems that you need extra help with. If you have personal
issues you would like to discuss (not finance), I am happy to visit with you without you going through all the steps above. Again, please
email so we can set up a visit.
Class Procedures: You can work on the class anytime, anywhere before the deadlines stated below. I encourage you to have a personal
prayer before each of your study sessions. In our brick and mortar sections, we start each class with a prayer.
Grading Policy and Student Responsibilities
1. The course grade will be based on each student’s performance in the following areas:
Midterms 50%
Final Exam 25%
ME Quizzes 25%
PLEASE NOTE: No exam will be reset. If you are worried about technical issues, use a BYU computer that is ethernet-wire
connected so you won’t lose Wifi.
This course grading consists of chapter quizzes, four midterms, and a cumulative final exam. The quizzes are due before 9am on the
day of the first lecture of that chapter. Quizzes have no time limit. You get two attempts at each quiz to help you prepare for class
lecture. You will see which questions you get wrong but will not see the correct solution until after the final due date. If you miss a
quiz, it will NOT be reset. Your lowest two quizzes will drop to allow for technical issues, bad days, car wrecks, sickness, etc. All
midterms and the final exam are closed everything – you will not be given a formula sheet on the exam. Learning the equations is an
important part of mastering the vocabulary of finance. Each midterm has 30 multiple choice questions and has a 1.5-hour time limit.
The final exam has 50 multiple choice questions and a 3-hour time limit. All exams are conducted online using Proctorio. There
Page 5 of 10
will be opportunities to complete research surveys to have your lowest midterm dropped. I will email out the surveys – they will not
be through the BYU research lab. If you have to miss a midterm due to a university excused absence, emergency, etc., that midterm
will be the one to drop. If you have to miss more than one midterm with university-excused absences, then the weight of the nonlowest exam(s) will be added to the final exam, making the final exam worth a larger percentage of your grade. Under no
circumstance will you be able to take the exam at any time other than when it is offered to all students. Sorry, but with 1,400+
students, there will be no exceptions. If you begin any of the exams, the grade will stand. If you are too sick to take an exam
(emotionally, mentally, or physically), do not take it. If you open an exam, the score will stand under all conditions, unless it is your
lowest exam, in which case it will drop if you do the research surveys.
All exams will be administered online with Proctorio. Exams are mandatory. The Final Exam is cumulative and comprehensive and
will be open all of final exam week.
Like the Fall sections of FIN 201, I compute two class scores and award the higher of the two scores. The first is as described above.
The second comes from the final exam alone. If you score higher on the final exam than you do on the first score, then I award that
higher score. This means that your final exam score becomes your final grade. As you can imagine, the final exam is more rigorous
than separate midterms as it is fully comprehensive of the entire semester.
2. Grading Distribution: The minimum cut-off for each letter grade is outlined below. If necessary, the distribution will be curved up
to a 3.2 mean. The 3.2 mean is to ensure equity across all 200-level Marriott School classes. Because we have so many students and
the distribution of grades assumes a nearly continuous distribution, we cannot round at all. For example, if you earn a
93.99999999999%, it is an A-. So make it over the hurdle! This is the distribution so if you see any other on LS, ME, or anywhere
else, use this one:
Grade Min % Grade Min % Grade Min %
A 94 B- 81 D+ 68
A- 91 C+ 78 D 64
B+ 88 C 74 D- 61
B 84 C- 71 E <61
3. The BYU Honor Code will be strictly enforced. Please protect your integrity above all else. If you are caught cheating, you will
fail this class and be reported to the BYU Honor Code Office to face possible expulsion from BYU.
4. It is a course requirement that all students actively seek to be good citizens. Among other factors, this requires living the letter and
intent of the honor code and the dress and grooming standards. For this course, failure to meet the citizenship requirement is
specifically made manifest by any of the following: 1) overt gender bias, 2) overt racial bias, 3) overt bias based on any other factor
such as religion, nation of origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, etc., 4) failure to show respect to fellow students, 5) failure to
show respect to the instructional staff (TAs), 6) failure to show respect to the instructor, 7) failure to make a “good-faith” individual
effort on individual assignments, and 8) any attempt to deceive or undermine the grading process. All exams are closed everything.
No smart glasses or smart watches are allowed to be worn during exams. Students who violate the citizenship requirement will
fail the course regardless of their performance on tests and will be reported to the honor code office. The instructor is the sole judge of
what constitutes violations of the citizenship requirement. This is BYU; conduct yourself with integrity and you will not have to worry
about citizenship issues.
5. I am not the only instructor to teach FIN 201. If you do not like my class format, the testing schedule, me, or anything else about my
class, you can drop my class and take it from one of the other professors. I have a document on LS that describes how the classes
differ. For example, if you like graded homework, my class may not be optimal for you. Another example, we do not go over midterm
exams after you have taken them in this class. I feel that pedagogy encourages you to learn for the test and not for real life. If this
will be a major problem for you, please take the class from one of the other instructors.
6. As your instructor, I feel an obligation to do my best to teach you this course material to the best of my ability. Since learning is a
two-way street, please give me the same consideration as a student by doing your best.
Suggestions for Success
The following are offered as suggestions to help you achieve a grade with which you are personally satisfied on the exams to be
administered during the semester:
1) Create your own regular “class time” to focus on the online lectures and drill problem sets. Be attentive and take good notes.
2) Read the assigned chapters carefully before class. Work the problems.
3) Master the vocabulary terms (to include equations) and the problems.
4) Form study groups early in the semester and meet with your group weekly to study and discuss lectures, assigned reading, and
problems. If you don’t like study groups, go to TA lab if you need help.
Page 6 of 10
5) Stay caught up on the material so you do not have to cram for the exams. This one is huge!
Grades: I want you to be successful and earn a high grade. I have no intention of “weeding people out” or wrecking anyone’s GPA.
However, you will receive a failing grade if your attendance, quality of work, and/or test scores warrant such a grade. If you are
unsatisfied with your performance, please discuss the matter with my TAs or me during the semester (after the first exam) and do not
wait until late in the semester or until the class is over. Please realize this is a 200-level course at a very prestigious private university
that aims to achieve the BYU mission statement which includes, “A period of intense learning.” If you have already taken a class
like ECON 110, MATH 112, AHTG 100, or PSCI 110, then you understand the rigor of 100-level courses at BYU. As this is a 200-
level course, it will be more rigorous than these 100-level courses. If you feel you are not ready for this type of rigor, please consider
dropping this class until you are ready.
DEW: If you take all four exams (or have university excused), the final exam, and complete all the quizzes (2 quiz grace), you
have the opportunity to take an optional cumulative online final as many times as you want during finals week until you receive
a score of 71% or higher. No matter what your weighted average equals (average can be below 71%). If you earn a 71% or
greater on the optional online final, you are guaranteed at least a C- in this class. Our goal is to minimize the number of D, E,
and W grades by allowing a way for everyone to demonstrate they have learned the material to a C- standard. If you think there
is any possible way you may earn a D, E or W, I STRONGLY encourage you to take the online final until you earn at least a
71%. The exam is proctored by Proctorio and is closed everything except a financial calculator. The online final DOES NOT
replace your testing center final. It will however raise your overall grade of D+, D, D-, or E to a C- and hopefully help people
not have to Withdraw from the class. Everyone can take the optional exam prior to taking the testing center final exam as extra
practice for the testing center final if desired. The online final is a subset of what we have learned in class and may not be a good
indicator of the score you will earn on the actual final exam. The online final has randomized questions so it will not be the same
twice.
Email and LS: Much of the communication for the course will be done via email via LS. It is your responsibility to regularly check
your email account. At a minimum, your email account should be checked at least once per day (excluding Sundays).
Syllabus Changes: The course outline that follows is subject to change. All necessary changes will be announced and discussed in
class. You are responsible for making sure you are aware of any such changes.
BYU Student Ratings of the Learning Experience Questions
Because BYU considers these the critical goals for us as learners, I have adopted them as my personal goals.
1. Explained concepts effectively: How effective was this instructor in teaching challenging concepts or skills?
2. Well organized: How effective was this instructor in organizing the course content to enhance learning?
3. Opportunities to get help: How effective was this instructor in helping students who indicated a need for assistance?
4. Opportunities for student involvement: How effective was this instructor in providing meaningful opportunities and
encouragement for you to actively participate in the learning process?
5. Responded to students respectfully: How effective was this instructor in demonstrating respect for students and their
opinions, questions, or concerns?
6. What effect did this course and instructor have in helping you achieve the Aims of a BYU Education?
a) Spiritually Strengthening
b) Intellectually Enlarging
c) Character Building
d) Leading to Lifelong Learning and Service
My Professional Mission Statement
To build the kingdom of God by providing the best educational experience for my students in a spirit-filled environment so they may
be better prepared to be outstanding managers and leaders throughout the world. I accomplish this emphasis through:
• Preparing the best curriculum possible.
• Fostering an enthusiastic environment in an inclusive classroom.
• Ensuring the Gospel is at the core of learning.
• Increasing the academic reputation of BYU, the Marriott School, and myself through my research agenda.
Measures of Success
• Student proficiency in subject material.
• The construction and administration of outstanding classes.
• The quality and quantity of my research.
Assessments
• Evaluation system for students.
Page 7 of 10
• Student evaluation scores for the professor (me).
• Peer-reviewed journal articles and presentations.
Something to think about...
 "Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration." —Thomas Edison, 1931
Marriott School Policies
Please see https://marriottschool.byu.edu/policies/classroom/ for the official MSB policies to include:
• Academic Honesty
• MSM Grading Policy
• Preventing Sexual Harassment
• Students with Disabilities
• Diversity
• Laptop Policy
• Cell/Smart Phone Policy
Marriott Business Inclusion Statement
At Brigham Young University’s Marriott School of Business, we embrace the university’s mission to “assist individuals in their quest
for perfection and eternal life.” We strive to foster an environment that is respectful of all backgrounds, perspectives, and voices, that
“all may be edified of all” (D&C 88:122). By extending a spirit of consideration, fellowship, and charity to everyone, we enable the
discovery of common values and unique insights as we each pursue our worthy secular and spiritual goals.
Preventing & Responding to Sexual Misconduct
In accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Brigham Young University prohibits unlawful sex discrimination
against any participant in its education programs or activities. The university also prohibits sexual harassment—including sexual
violence—committed by or against students, university employees, and visitors to campus. As outlined in university policy, sexual
harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking are considered forms of "Sexual Misconduct" prohibited by
the university.
University policy requires all university employees in a teaching, managerial, or supervisory role to report all incidents of Sexual
Misconduct that come to their attention in any way, including but not limited to face-to-face conversations, a written class assignment
or paper, class discussion, email, text, or social media post. Incidents of Sexual Misconduct should be reported to the Title IX
Coordinator at t9coordinator@byu.edu or (801) 422-8692. Reports may also be submitted through EthicsPoint at
https://titleix.byu.edu/report or 1-888-238-1062 (24-hours a day).
BYU offers confidential resources for those affected by Sexual Misconduct, including the university’s Victim Advocate, as well as a
number of non-confidential resources and services that may be helpful. Additional information about Title IX, the university’s Sexual
Misconduct Policy, reporting requirements, and resources can be found at http://titleix.byu.edu or by contacting the university’s Title
IX Coordinator.
BYU CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services)
BYU’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) offers a number of resources to help students manage stress and other
challenges. See the CAPS website for helpful information. In addition, BYU Marriott and CAPS have partnered to bring a full-time
counselor (Shannon Tappana, LCSW) and two part time therapists to the Tanner Building to better meet the wellness and counseling
needs of BYU Marriott students. Students desiring any type of support services offered by CAPS, can go to the following page
to Make an Appointment. After completing the online paperwork, please call CAPS at (801) 422-3035 and tell them you are a BYU
Marriott student and they will schedule you to meet with one of the on-site counselors or help connect you to the other services you
are requesting. Please also feel free to call Shannon at (801) 422-5139 or email MSBWellness@byu.edu if you would like to chat or
consult less formally. (Please note that email is not considered a confidential form of communication.) In the initial appointment, the
counselor will help you figure out the best course of action for you. They may refer you to a specific counselor, stress management
services, or one of the following therapy groups:
Depression
Couples Group Therapy
Body/Eating Concerns
Mindful Eating
Group Anxiety Program
Meditation
Mindfulness/Self-Compassion
Trauma Recovery and Empowerment
Sexual Concerns 1
Page 8 of 10
Sexual Concerns 2
OCD Tendencies
Autism Spectrum Issues
General Process
Effective Life Skills
You may also want to use the Sanvello app, which is free for BYU students. I use it and find it helpful: https://caps.byu.edu/sanvello.
University Accessibility Center (UAC)
If you feel you may have test anxiety, ADHD, or some other condition for which special accommodations will help you excel, please
contact the UAC at https://uac.byu.edu/ and fill in their request for appointment. If you have a UAC letter, I am more than happy to
work with you in FIN 201. I want you to succeed.
Suggestions for Further Study: As listed above, the fourth aim of the university is to inspire life-long learning and service. Following
is my suggested list of books and resources that may help you in this aim.
Designations to continue to study for:
• Certified Financial Planner (CFP) Board of Standards (https://www.cfp.net/): This is the official site of the CFP Board. The
CFP certification is for those who wish to work in the financial planning arena, such as private wealth managers, brokers,
personal finance consultants, etc. I teach our CFP prep course (FIN 418, Financial Planning). If you are interested in becoming
a CFP professional, we have CFP track in the finance major (https://marriott.byu.edu/bsfin/academics/tracks/private-wealthfinancial-planning/).
• CFA Institute (http://www.cfainstitute.org/): This is the official site of the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) sponsor. The
CFA charter is for those who wish to be professional asset managers for mutual funds, analysts for investment banks, etc. I
taught the CFA prep class (FIN 510) here at BYU for six years, now Dr. Holmes has the class. He is the one who created the
course in 2010. If you want to earn the CFA Charter, the finance major is the best option to prepare for the exams.
We have two prep classes at BYU – this one (CFP®, FIN 418) and one for the CFA (FIN 510). I taught the CFA prep class for six
years and now Dr. Holmes, who originally developed it in 2010, teaches it. Dr. Holmes is an expert at the CFA material and is a CFA
charter holder. I hold both the CFA charter and CFP® designation, so am familiar with both. Some students ask which exam is best to
take, if there is only bandwidth to take one (which is most likely the case). It completely depends on what career path you are
targeting. If you want to be an investment banker, hedge/mutual fund manager, do financial engineering aspects of private equity,
such as designing optimized covariance portfolios or financial derivative structures for clients, the CFA would probably be best. The
CFA program is a series of three exams. You can pass one as an undergraduate and the other two after graduating. Passing the CFA
Level 1 is a gigantic signal to employers.
If you are more interested in assisting families, individuals, and businesses design their financial plan as a professional wealth advisor,
the CFP® would most likely be better than the CFA. As you can see in the topics below, the CFP® curriculum covers material not
covered in the finance junior core, such as trusts, estate planning, education planning, and insurance planning, among others. (This is
why FIN 200 and FIN 418 are part of the Private Wealth and Financial Planning Track at BYU. Both FIN 200 and this class cover
these topics.) The CFA on the other hand, is highly correlated with our junior core (but more advanced and comprehensive).
The CFP® Board registered finance major track consists of ACC 200, FIN 201, ACC 305/310, FIN 410, FIN 453, FIN 418, and
FIN 200. FIN 200 and FIN 418 count as the two finance electives for your finance major and the other five classes are required for the
finance major.
A few high-quality books to get you started. Get the newest edition of the text if you can afford it. If not, get an older edition as they
are usually super cheap. Editions usually have a very high correlation.
Business Statistics
Business Statistics (Barron's Business Review Series),
[Downing and Clark]
Excel
Financial Analysis with Microsoft Excel, [Mayes]
Financial Management
Analysis for Financial Management, by [Higgins,
Koski, & Mitton]
Investing
Unshakeable, [Robbins]
A Random Walk Down Wall Street, [Malkiel]
Entrepreneurial Finance
The Art of the Start, [Kawasaki]
Entrepreneurial Finance, [Leach & Melicher]
Personal Finance
Total Money Makeover, [Ramsey]
personalfinance.byu.edu, [Sudweeks] (free)
https://financialplan.byu.edu/ (free)
Family Stuff
The Power of Positive Parenting, [Latham]
Page 9 of 10
Raising up a Family to the Lord, [Cook]
How Will You Measure Your Life, [Christensen]
People/Personal Skills
How to Win Friends and Influence People,
[Carnegie]
The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, [Covey]
How to Stop Worrying and Start Living, [Carnegie]
Quiet: The Power of Introverts, [Cain]
The Highly Sensitive Person, [Aron]
Nutrition
Why We Get Fat: And What to do about It, [Taubes]
The Case Against Sugar, [Taubes]
Mental Health
Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy, [Burns]
Freeing Yourself from Anxiety, [Chansky]
LGBTQIA+
Love Boldly, [Mackintosh]
No More Goodbyes, [Pearson]
https://questionsfromthecloset.com/ [Ben & Charlie]
Economics
Freakonomics, [Dubner and Levitt]
Paradigms
Mindset [Dweck]
Grit [Duckworth]
Outline [Attia]
Everything by Malcolm Gladwell
Everything by Brené Brown
Education
Up from Slavery, [Washington]
Feminism (kind of)
My Own Words, [Bader Ginsburg]
Leadership
Extreme Ownership, [Willink & Babin]
LDS Apologetics
Shaken Faith Syndrome, [Ash]
Of Faith and Reason, [Ash]
Bridges: Ministering to Those Who Question, [Ostler]
http://www.fairmormon.org/ (free)
http://maxwellinstitute.byu.edu/ (free)
A Selection of Favorite BYU Devotionals (in no particular order)
• “Agency, Accountability, and the Atonement of Jesus Christ: Application to Sexual Assault” | Benjamin M. Ogles
• “Be As Good As You Can Be” | W. Steve Albrecht
• “Hard Sayings and Safe Spaces: Making Room for Struggle as Well as Faith” | Eric D. Huntsman
• “Lessons Learned from Listening to Others” | W. Steve Albrecht
• “Spiritual Thoughts in the Classroom” | James C. Brau
• “Stand Forever” | Lawrence E. Corbridge
• “The Weight of the World” | James Stice
• “We Need an Endowment” | Anthony Sweat
• “Without Compulsory Means” | Stephen W. Liddle
• “Women and Education: ‘A Future Only God Could See for You’” | Eva Witesman
• “Wrestling with Comparisons” | J.B. Haws
• “The Plagues of Prosperity” | Ben Bikman
TED Talks I Like (in no particular order)
• Living by an Ethos, Nicholas Lavery, https://youtu.be/FE43AC4WmdY?si=hR8Fmh4eJgyN359g
• The Unheard Story of David and Goliath, Malcolm Galdwell, https://youtu.be/ziGD7vQOwl8?si=b651G1sc6JqQmZl1
• The Power of Introverts, Susan Cain, https://youtu.be/c0KYU2j0TM4?si=z5ROux5mnQmMyJkw
• Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance, Angela Duckworth, https://youtu.be/H14bBuluwB8?si=eXge9JR0-OcDUfV4
• The Power of Believing You Can Improve, Carol Dweck, https://youtu.be/_X0mgOOSpLU?si=ddCRYDxNuNnEMIuj
• Sugar is Not a Treat, Jody Stanislaw, https://youtu.be/tic7X3ET4gE?si=1CKe7RgLPo-mJSYj
• Last Lecture Series, Graham Weaver, https://youtu.be/uxoCnxlxpIk?si=RPcrrXduzdw964Im
Page 10 of 10
Outline for FIN 201 -- Winter 2026
Date Chapter Topic
Thur, Jan 8 Syllabus Welcome to class
Tues, Jan 13 1/2 Intro to Finance/Accounting
Thur, Jan 15 2/3 Accounting/DuPont, Cash Flows,
EVA
Tues, Jan 20 3 DuPont, Cash Flows, EVA
Thur, Jan 22 4 Financial Forecasting
Tue, Jan 27 4 Financial Forecasting
Thur-Fri, Jan 29-30 1-4 Exam 1*
Tues, Feb 3 5 Time Value of Money
Thur, Feb 5 5/6 Time Value of Money/Bonds
Tues, Feb 10 6 Bond Valuation
Thur, Feb 12 7 Stock Valuation
Thur, Feb 19 7 Stock Valuation
Mon-Tues, Feb 23-24 5-7 Exam 2*
Thur, Feb 26 8 Risk and Return
Tues, Mar 3 8 Risk and Return
Thur, Mar 5 9 Cost of Capital
Tues, Mar 10 9 Cost of Capital
Thur, Mar 12 11 Capital Budgeting
Tues, Mar 17 11 Capital Budgeting
Wed-Thur, Mar 18-19 8,9,11 Exam 3*
Tues, Mar 24 12 Capital Budgeting/Cash Flows
Thur, Mar 26 12 Capital Budgeting/Cash Flows
Tues, Mar 31 13 Firm Valuation/Problems
Thur, Apr 2 15 Personal Financial Planning (visitors
welcome)
Tues, Apr 7 15 Personal Financial Planning (visitors
welcome)
Thur, Apr 9 15 Personal Financial Planning (visitors
welcome)
Mon-Tue, Apr 13-14 12,13,15 Exam 4*
Finals Week-1 (Apr 17-22) All above Cumulative Final Exam