This is an On Demand course.

Most of the material you will learn is available here in Canvas; you will also meet with teams that you will sign up to partner (remotely is acceptable) to discuss various topics covered in the materials. 

A Note About This Course
The content in this course is unique to other courses. It has been developed using various materials and media identified as interesting, unique, and helpful to students looking at the global issues of supply chain management. We hope you enjoy the format and materials!

 

Course Description
Introduction to International Supply Chain provides students with a foundational understanding of key concepts in global business. Topics include global negotiations, international shipping, outsourced manufacturing, Political Economic Social Technical Legal Environmental (PESTLE) analysis, and supply chain strategies designed for global and social impact. Through applied learning, the course prepares students to thrive in a dynamic and interconnected global business environment.

Back to Top

Prerequisites
None

Back to Top

Course Learning Outcomes
Students will be able to:

Identify business scenarios where supply chains have adapted to globalization.
Appraise effective supply chain, entrance strategies into global destinations.
Illustrate barriers and catalysts to importing foreign products into domestic markets.
Identify the political, economic, social and technological (PEST) factors in individual countries that affect supply chain implementation and operations in those countries. 
Demonstrate how cultural differences influence supply chain negotiations and operations. 
Evaluate how effective supply chain management can mitigate global risk.
Back to Top

Course Materials
No textbook is required for this course. All required material is included in the modules provided. 

Back to Top

Technology Needs
Browser
For best performance, Canvas should be used on the latest releases of

Chrome
Firefox
Safari
Check your browser compatibilityLinks to an external site. with Canvas. For MyEducator use, do not use Edge. 

Hardware/software
Microsoft Office - Zoom - 

[Include items that are needed for the course that are not already included in Canvas]

Requisite skills to use Hardware/software
[Added to the course that is not already in Canvas]

Back to Top

Workload
As a general university guideline, for every credit hour enrolled during a Fall or Winter semester, students should expect to spend one hour each week in class and two hours outside of class time doing preparation and homework. All of that is wrapped up in your online participation for this class, because self-directed study time online will replace traditional in-class time. Furthermore, this class is taught on a double time structure since it is only one term long. So in addition to the regularly expected readings and class preparation load, plan on three extra hours a week that you will invest in the course as a replacement for class time:

Lecture time will be replaced with readings and videos.
In-class discussion and participation time will be replaced with assignments, including quizzes, discussion boards, projects or other activities. (OD)
As a one and a half-credit class done on double time, you should expect to dedicate a minimum of 1.5 hours per unit to this course. You will do two units per week. This combined with additional studying and assignments should add up to 6-9 hours a week for the best results. 

Back to Top


Assignments
Discussion Boards 
To create a touch point between you and your classmates and to help you practice applying course content in your life, we will have one discussion board per week on a topic covered in the material this serves as your main "Class Participation." You must submit a response to the prompt and a response to a peer. 

This is the link to the sign up spreadsheet for your group for discussion boards in this class. Please sign up for a group based on your availability preferences. Please sign up top to bottom. You will be expected to use each other's emails to set up time to call about discussion board prompts, ideally during the availability slot you select. You would then respond as a group to the initial prompt and individually to the group response. More details are found in the discussion board assignments. Please comment on discussion boards online only for weeks you met with your team for. Doing otherwise is academically dishonest and we may pursue that dishonesty with the Honor Code Office. To verify this, we will send a survey out at the end of the semester to your peers and your grade may be adjusted and violations pursued based on their feedback. 

Your group may be reorganized at any time with notice from a TA if your group has different than 3-4 members. 

If you want phone numbers or other methods of contact, you will be the ones to set that up: for the spreadsheet and this class we only ask that you give your student email.

Quizzes
Quizzes are open book, not open neighbor. There will be no makeup quizzes; students will be allowed to drop one quiz at the end of the term. Only open the quiz when you are prepared to take it. You cannot exit out of the quiz and return to it later. If you are locked out of the quiz (through a technical computer glitch), you are responsible for informing the TA as soon as possible. Quizzes can only be reopened if the problem is addressed before the due date.

Final Project
For the final project, you will work in teams of 3–4 to analyze a global make-or-buy decision for a company launching a new product. Your group will evaluate whether the company should manufacture the product in-house or outsource production, and recommend an appropriate country or region for sourcing or manufacturing.

Your analysis must apply concepts from GSCM 211 (e.g., global sourcing, manufacturing strategy, trade-offs, logistics, tariffs, political risk, culture, and supply chain resilience). The focus should be on global strategic considerations—not just operational or domestic factors.

Project Components:

Select a realistic new product aligned with the company

Develop a clear make-or-buy recommendation

Justify location choice using course frameworks

Create a 7–9 slide PowerPoint 

Use at least two credible sources

Deliver a 7–10 minute live presentation to a TA (sign-up via Canvas)

All group members are expected to participate. Full project details are available on the course homepage.

Exams
The midterm and final will be given using the Honorlock software in Canvas and as such are closed book/closed note. It is best to plan on taking exams before the last day so as to avoid any possible technology problems we can’t fix right away. Exams will be made up of multiple choice questions. There is a 2 hour time limit for each exam.

Midterms test everything studied up to that point in the semester, Finals mostly emphasize material studied between the Midterm and the Final but they do include questions on material from before the Midterm. Our review videos will tell you what to review. 

Online Exam Proctoring Through Honorlock 

All your exams will be proctored using Honorlock.  Honorlock is an automated proctoring system that allows you to take your exam outside of the testing center and at any time during the exam dates.  Remember, you are still being proctored, and your exams will be reviewed by Honorlock Proctors and by the instructor and TAs, as needed. For a successful exam please do the following:

use a computer, Chromebook, or laptop (you cannot take the exams on a tablet or smartphone);
use Google Chrome (Honorlock ONLY works on this web browser);
use a working webcam, microphone and speakers on your computer
Back to Top

AI Policy
To maintain academic integrity, students are prohibited from using AI tools during quizzes, assignments and exams. The only exception is that AI tools may be used for idea generation, students must create their own presentations and write their own responses. If you have English as a second language needs, you must work through that exception with a TA before using it in assignments

AI-generated content should constitute less than 25% of the final submission of all assignments as determined by AI detection tools. 

Violations may result in a zero, referral to the Honor Code Committee, and potential disciplinary action. 

Back to Top

TAs
Please make note that TAs in this course are best used for prevention. They are more than happy to answer any questions you have about material beforehand and are even happy to help you understand questions that you missed. It is, however GSCM policy to NOT give points back on any assignment based on student logic. There are rare exceptions to this, but ask expecting a "No." This policy allows the instructor room to curve the class at the end of the term. 

Back to Top

Grading Policies
Grade Breakdown 
Graded Elements (OD)	Percent of Grade
Online Discussion Boards	10%
Quizzes	10%
Midterm	20%
Final	35%
Mini Project	25%
Total	100%
Grades may or may not be curved in the end at the discretion of the instructor.  BYU policy states that the final average grade for this course should not exceed 3.4. ALL ASSIGNMENT AND EXAM DATES ARE FIRM. Any exceptions to this rule must fall under one of the following categories;

Death of an immediate family member.
Sickness with doctor's note.
BYU excused absence (sports etc.)
Back to Top

Grade Scheme
The following grading standards will be used in this class:

Grade	Range	Grade	Range
A	96% - 100%	C	76% - 77%
A-	91% - 95%	C-	71% - 75%
B+	88% - 91%	D+	68% - 70%
B	86% - 87%	D	66% - 67%
B-	81% - 85%	D-	61% - 65%
C+	78% - 80%	E	0% - 60%
Back to Top

Course Policies
Late Submissions
Late assignments will be accepted with a 10% penalty applied for each day the assignment is late.

Back to Top

BYU Online Policies
Statement on Belonging
We are united by our common primary identity as children of God (Acts 17:29; Psalm 82:6) and our commitment to the truths of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ (BYU Mission Statement). We strive to create a community of belonging composed of students, faculty, and staff whose hearts are knit together in love (Mosiah 18:21) where

all relationships reflect devout love of God and a loving, genuine concern for the welfare of our neighbor (BYU Mission Statement);
we value and embrace the variety of individual characteristics, life experiences and circumstances, perspectives, talents, and gifts of each member of the community and the richness and strength they bring to our community (1 Corinthians 12:12–27);
our interactions create and support an environment of belonging (Ephesians 2:19); and
the full realization of each student’s divine potential is our central focus (BYU Mission Statement).
Honor Code
In keeping with the principles of the BYU Honor Code, students are expected to be honest in all of their academic work. Academic honesty means, most fundamentally, that any work you present as your own must in fact be your own work and not that of another. Violations of this principle may result in a failing grade in the course and additional disciplinary action by the university. Students are also expected to adhere to the Dress and Grooming Standards. Adherence demonstrates respect for yourself and others and ensures an effective learning and working environment. It is the university's expectation, and my own expectation in class, that each student will abide by all Honor Code standards. Please call the Honor Code Office at 801-422-2847 if you have questions about those standards.

Preventing and Responding to Sexual Misconduct
Brigham Young University prohibits all forms of sexual harassment—including sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking on the basis of sex—by its personnel and students and in all its education programs or activities. University policy requires all faculty members to promptly report incidents of sexual harassment that come to their attention in any way and encourages reports by students who experience or become aware of sexual harassment. Incidents should be reported to the Title IX Coordinator at title9@byu.edu or 801-422-8692 or 1320 WSC. Reports may also be submitted online to the Title IX OfficeLinks to an external site. or by calling 1-888-238-1062 (24 hours a day). BYU offers a number of resources and services for those affected by sexual harassment. If you or someone you know has experienced sexual assault, BYU’s Sexual Assault Survivor Advocacy Services (SASAS) can help. SASAS can provide information, support, and connection to the resources you may need. SASAS services are free and confidential.

SASAS Contact Information

Phone: 801.422.9071
Email: advocate@byu.edu
Web: https://advocates.byu.edu/
Location: 1500 WSC
National Sexual Assault Hotline: 1-800-656-4673
Additional information about sexual harassment, the university's Sexual Harassment Policy, reporting requirements, and resources can be found in the University Catalog, by visiting the Title IX Office websiteLinks to an external site., or by contacting the university's Title IX Coordinator.

Student Disability
Brigham Young University is committed to providing a working and learning atmosphere that reasonably accommodates qualified persons with disabilities. If you have any disability which may impair your ability to complete this course successfully, please contact the University Accessibility Center (UAC) located at 2170 WSC, or call 801-422-2767. Reasonable academic accommodations are reviewed for all students who have qualified, documented disabilities. The UAC can also assess students for learning, attention, and emotional concerns. Services are coordinated with the student and instructor by the UAC. If you need assistance or if you feel you have been unlawfully discriminated against on the basis of disability, you may seek resolution through established grievance policy and procedures by contacting the Equal Employment Office at 801-422-5895, D-285 ASB.

In this spirit, BYU Online aspires to improve web accessibility for users. While not required by law, the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Levels A and AA provide a wide range of helpful recommendations to make web content more accessible. BYU Online strives to apply WCAG 2.0 recommendations where feasible but may deviate from any recommendations that would result in an undue hardship to BYU Online or alterations to program and course content and objectives. If you have questions about accessibility, or if you need to report problems with any accessibility features, please see our Accessibilities and Accommodations Web Page.Links to an external site.

Academic Honesty
The first injunction of the Honor Code is the call to be honest. Students come to the university not only to improve their minds, gain knowledge, and develop skills that will assist them in their life's work, but also to build character. "President David O. McKay taught that character is the highest aim of education" ("The Aims of a BYU Education," p. 6). It is the purpose of the BYU Academic Honesty Policy to assist in fulfilling that aim. BYU students should seek to be totally honest in their dealings with others. They should complete their own work and be evaluated based on that work. They should avoid academic dishonesty and misconduct in all its forms, including but not limited to plagiarism, fabrication or falsification, cheating, and other academic misconduct.

Plagiarism
Intentional plagiarism is a form of intellectual theft that violates widely recognized principles of academic integrity as well as the Honor Code. Such plagiarism may subject the student to appropriate disciplinary action administered through the university Honor Code Office, in addition to academic sanctions that may be applied by an instructor. Inadvertent plagiarism, which may not be a violation of the Honor Code, is nevertheless a form of intellectual carelessness that is unacceptable in the academic community. Plagiarism of any kind is completely contrary to the established practices of higher education where all members of the university are expected to acknowledge the original intellectual work of others that is included in their own work. In some cases, plagiarism may also involve violations of copyright law. Intentional plagiarism is the deliberate act of representing the words, ideas, or data of another as one's own without providing proper attribution to the author through quotation, reference, or footnote. Inadvertent plagiarism involves the inappropriate, but non-deliberate, use of another's words, ideas, or data without proper attribution. Inadvertent plagiarism usually results from an ignorant failure to follow established rules for documenting sources or from simply not being sufficiently careful in research and writing. Although not a violation of the Honor Code, inadvertent plagiarism is a form of academic misconduct for which an instructor can impose appropriate academic sanctions. Students who are in doubt as to whether they are providing proper attribution have the responsibility to consult with their instructor and obtain guidance. Examples of plagiarism include the following:

Direct Plagiarism: The verbatim copying of an original source without acknowledging the source.
Paraphrased Plagiarism: The paraphrasing, without acknowledgment, of ideas from another that the reader might mistake for the author's own.
Plagiarism Mosaic: The borrowing of words, ideas, or data from an original source and blending this original material with one's own without acknowledging the source.
Insufficient Acknowledgement: The partial or incomplete attribution of words, ideas, or data from an original source.
Plagiarism may occur with respect to unpublished as well as published material. Copying another student's work and submitting it as one's own individual work without proper attribution is a serious form of plagiarism.

Online Exams and Proctoring (If Applicable)
Maintaining academic integrity is a fundamental expectation at BYU and in this course, and all students are required to uphold honesty and ethical behavior in their work. To ensure a fair and secure testing environment, this course may utilize remote online proctoring software to monitor and record online exams. The proctoring software is designed to verify your identity, monitor the testing environment, and ensure no unauthorized materials or supports are used during the exam.

By taking this course, you agree to comply with the proctoring guidelines and all BYU Academic policies. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure a quiet, distraction-free environment during exams and to adhere to all rules and instructions provided. Please be aware that any violations of academic honesty, including but not limited to cheating or the use of unauthorized resources, will be addressed and may result in penalties, including failing the exam or course in accordance with the BYU's Academic Honesty Policy.

Honorlock 

If your course has online proctored exams, your course will utilize Honorlock to proctor these exams.  Honorlock provides remote proctoring services that uses artificial intelligence (AI) software and live proctors. The blend of AI remote proctoring software and live proctors aim to protect academic integrity and to support students through a successful completion of the exam. If the AI detects potential issues, it alerts a live test proctor to review the situation and intervene if needed. 

Preparing for your exam 

Honorlock does not require students to create an account, download a separate web browser, or schedule an appointment with Honorlock in advance. Students are responsible for ensuring their computer, browser and internet meet the minimum system requirementLinks to an external site.s necessary for the completion of the online exam. 

Before you begin your exam, you will be required to have the following:

Computer or Chromebook
Working webcam and microphone
Stable internet connection
Google Chrome browser
Download the Honorlock Browser Extenstion
Some form of picture ID (e.g. School ID, driver’s license, etc.)
When you are ready to complete your exam Honorlock will walk you through an authentication process which includes the following:

Taking a picture of yourself and showing some form of ID
Complete a 360-degree room scan of your testing environment
Honorlock records your exam session through your webcam, microphone, and recording your screen. Honorlock can detect violations on exam rules and instructions, suspicious eye movement, dual monitors and search-engine use.

Proctoring Acknowledgement Quiz 

Before accessing the academic course exams, you will complete a "Proctoring Acknowledgement" quiz. You will be required to acknowledge that you have read and understand the BYU Academic Honesty PolicyLinks to an external site. as well as exam rules and guidelines. The acknowledgment quiz will also serve as an opportunity to help you navigate taking your exam through Honorlock.

Honorlock Support and Resources 

Honorlock support is available 24/7/365. If you encounter any issues, you may contact them through live chat on the support pageLinks to an external site. or within the exam itself. Some guides you should review are Honorlock System RequirementsLinks to an external site., Honorlock FAQs for Test TakersLinks to an external site., and How to Use HonorlockLinks to an external site..

Respectful Environment
"Sadly, from time to time, we do hear reports of those who are at best insensitive and at worst insulting in their comments to and about others. . . . We hear derogatory and sometimes even defamatory comments about those with different political, athletic, or ethnic views or experiences. Such behavior is completely out of place at BYU, and I enlist the aid of all to monitor carefully and, if necessary, correct any such that might occur here, however inadvertent or unintentional. I worry particularly about demeaning comments made about the career or major choices of women or men either directly or about members of the BYU community generally. We must remember that personal agency is a fundamental principle and that none of us has the right or option to criticize the lawful choices of another." —President Cecil O. Samuelson, Annual University Conference, August 24, 2010

"Occasionally, we . . . hear reports that our female faculty feel disrespected, especially by students, for choosing to work at BYU, even though each one has been approved by the BYU Board of Trustees. Brothers and sisters, these things ought not to be. Not here. Not at a university that shares a constitution with the School of the Prophets." —Vice President John S. Tanner, Annual University Conference, August 24, 2010

Mental Health Concerns
Mental health concerns and stressful life events can affect students' academic performance and quality of life. BYU Counseling and Psychological Services (1500 WSC, 801-422-3035) provides individual, couples, and group counseling, as well as stress management services. These services are confidential and are provided by the university at no cost to full-time students. For general information please visit the BYU Counseling and Psychological Services websiteLinks to an external site.; for more immediate concerns please visit the Helping Distressed Students at BYU web pageLinks to an external site..

Inappropriate Use of Course Materials
All course materials (e.g., outlines, handouts, syllabi, exams, quizzes, PowerPoint presentations, lectures, or audio and video recordings) are proprietary. Students are prohibited from posting or selling any such course materials without the express written permission of the professor teaching this course. To do so is a violation of the Brigham Young University Honor Code.

The materials used in connection with this online course are only for the use of students enrolled in this course for purposes associated with this course and may not be retained or further disseminated. Any copying or further dissemination of these materials may be subject to applicable U.S. copyright laws. For questions or more information, please visit the BYU Copyright Licensing OfficeLinks to an external site. website.

"Members of the BYU community who willfully disregard this Copyright Policy or the BYU Copyright Guidelines place themselves individually at risk of legal action and may incur personal liability for their conduct. The unauthorized use or distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject individuals to civil and criminal liabilities, including actual and statutory damages, costs and fees of litigation, fines, and imprisonment. . . .

Violations of the Copyright Policy may result in university disciplinary action including termination of university enrollment or employment" (Excerpt taken from the BYU Copyright PolicyLinks to an external site.).